# 2025-2026学年第二学期《遥感与GIS综合》期末考试试题

- 考试卷型：A卷、开卷
- 教师：丁凤 福建师范大学地理科学学院
- 课程：《遥感与GIS综合》
- 考试时间：2026年6月27日 14:00-16:00

本份试卷为回忆版试题。[@Xuuyuan](https://github.com/Xuuyuan)

## I. Write the corresponding Chinese/English words for the following: (32%)

1. Census data
2. spatial interpolation
3. metadata
4. accuracy assessment
5. object-oriented classification
6. data redundancy
7. 特征提取
8. 光谱混淆
9. 人口估算
10. 不透水面
11. 误差分析
12. 数据融合
13. 变化检测
14. 辅助数据
15. 比例图像（组分图像）
16. 逐步回归分析

## II. True or False: (10%)

1. Some of the newer satellite images have a spatial resolution of 0.5 meter or less.
2. Shapefiles are NOT topology-based.
3. An image with a larger pixel size has a higher resolution than an image with a smaller pixel size.
4. Digital orthophotos do not contain image displacement or distortion.
5. $MNDWI=(Green-NIR)/(Green+NIR)$ .

## III. Single choice questions: (10%)

1. Which of the following satellites has a panchromatic resolution of 0.8m and a multispectral resolution of 3.2m?

   a. GF-2  
   b. Sentinel-2  
   c. IKONOS-2  
   d. MODIS  
   e. LJ1-01  
   f. Landsat-9

2. Which of the following statistics CANNOT be used in a neighborhood operation?

   a. maximum  
   b. mean  
   c. majority  
   d. minority  
   e. none of the above

3. What was the name of the first artificial satellite?

   a. Landsat-1  
   b. GF-1  
   c. Sputnik 1  
   d. SPOT-1  
   e. WorldView-1

4. Which of the following represents a secondary data source?

   a. GPS readings  
   b. satellite images  
   c. aerial photographs  
   d. paper maps  

5. The accuracy of spatial interpolation can be influenced by:

   a. number of control points  
   b. distribution of control points  
   c. data-poor areas  
   d. all of the above

## IV. Answer the following questions: (48%)

1. Ancillary data (including GIS data such as soil, terrain, zoning, and Census data, etc.) has long been used to improve the remote sensing image classification accuracy. Please **briefly describe** how the ancillary data can be used at different stages of image classification. You may **draw a flowchart** to facilitate your description. (10%)

2. According to Chapter 10 of the textbook, please briefly describe how to carry out population estimation at the country level using remote sensing data combined with Census data. You may **draw a flowchart** to aid your description. You are encouraged to **put forward suggestions for future improvement** to the research outlined in Chapter 10. (14%)

3. With the development of remote sensing technologies, tools and datasets, does this eliminate the need for people to collect data or information on the ground? Please **briefly explain why or why not.** (9%)

4. Based on what you have learned from the course of Remote Sensing and GIS Integration, what **critical considerations** should be kept in mind **when calculating the RSEI** (Remote Sensing Based Ecological Index)? Additionally, **what aspects require special attention** if we aim to **improve the RSEI** ? (15%)
